---
layout: post
title: gite
permalink: gite
tags: homebrew cli bash git
---

I like `git` and as I'm automating a lot of my pain points, I had to extend git to fit my workflow. That is why I created [gite](https://github.com/boertel/gite/). I also took this opportunity to poke around with Homebrew and create my own "tap".

Here are the commands that `gite` provides (ordered by my favorites to the ones I forgot existed):

### `git hub`
Opens your git hosting provider in your `$BROWSER`. It allows me to quickly pull up my github repository without finding it in one of my 203 opened tabs...
It provides a few nice options:\
- `-g` to open in the background
- `--pr` to go directly to the "compare" view between your current branch and your base branch
- `-c` to view your latest commit

### `git uu`
You merge branches and then you are suddenly facing: `UU`. Oh no conflicts!
This command will open all your conflicted files into your `$EDITOR` (hint: it is `vim`).

### `git root`
Mostly used inside bash scripts, it is returning the root folder on your git repository.

### `git name`
Same as the previous command, it will generate the git provider hosting name. For `gite` , it will output: `boertel/gite`

### `git iam`
Which author do I want my commits to be for that repo? Some repositories need to be under my work email, some under my personal email, some under a third party email (contracting work).
I can switch between these and set it up per repo-basis: `git iam me` for my personal email, `git iam work` for my work one.

### `git brew`
Since I tried to get started to create my own Homebrew Tap. It is a pain to have to write your Formula .rb file every time you release a new version. `git brew` will generate that for me!

### `git hook`
I used to have a git hook on commit to take a picture from my webcam and post it on Twitter: https://twitter.com/gitpushmyface (it stopped working, and I never fixed it). So that command was an easy shortcut to test out that the script.

### `git wip`
Ever get your Monday started and you don't know where you left out your work. `git-wip` will open all your modified files into your `$EDITOR`.

### `git pages`
It opens your GitHub Pages in your browser if it exists.

### `git publish`
Still with GitHub Pages, it merges and push your branch into `gh-pages`.

### `git monitor`
I forgot about that one because I used to use it to open Opbeat Monitoring tool (but they got [bought by Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/blog/welcome-opbeat-to-the-elastic-family). But I noticed that it can open Heroku dashboard. Maybe I'll create a `git heroku` command.

### `git release`
That one will be prior to `git-brew`, it creates a new GitHub release so `git-brew` is able to fetch the archive for the newly created version.

### `git ico`
It stands for `interactive checkout` and it fetches all your remote branches and give you the choice to checkout any of these branches locally.

### `git migration <pattern>`
It looks up for a `pattern` and open *all* files that contains it.


I realize that some of these are outdated or should be `aliases` but they work for me.

If you want to give it a go:

```bash
$ brew tap boertel/tap
$ brew install gite
```


## What I learned
1. Any command in your `$PATH` that starts with `git-*` will be able to be called as a `git` subcommand
2. If you want your own Homebrew Tap, you need to host it under `boertel/homebrew-tap` even if you are adding: `boertel/tap`
3. Remember `make` and `bash` are sometimes just enough


## What about the name?
`gite` can stand for "git extended" or from the French _gîte_ that means cottage.
