---
layout: post
title: First commit, Hello World
published: false
---

... and others asdf, [foo, bar](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foobar), every developer knows how painful and one of the most hardest thing it is to find right words for: variables, debug messages, files, projects, commit messages and so on.

- Projects could be name after whatever objects are in front of you: *Nutella*, *bread*, *pillow* or with a bit of more originality (understand: exostim) translate it in a foreign language: *pain*, *oreiller*. It could be also your favorite cartoon and movie character. But it's funnier and more interesting to find something subtle, for example [*Mustache*](//mustache.github.com) or its alternative solution [*Handlebars*](//handlebars.com) make reference to their delimiter tag: ```{```.
- Variables have to be short, writing 40-characters words all the time, your keyboard and fingers are not going to be happy, neither your screen resolution. But also it has to be comprehensible, first for the others that read or interact with your code and for you when you will read your lines two months for now.
- Who never use ```asdf``` or the upper ```qwer``` or the left-handed ```lkjh``` in a debug/test message? So easy to type, just roll out your fingers on your keyboard and here they come. No question asked and time wasted figuring out what should said these messages, they will be out of your code in a matter of seconds (or minutes with your debugging section takes more time as excepted).
<br/>

All the questioning which is not going to affect your algorithm. After writing this blog post, it seems that it's kind of the same for writing. You know what you are going to talk about but you need to figure it out how to express it.
And here comes the questions: What the title should be? It must be catchy. What the feature's name should be? It must be clear and appropriate. What the first paragraph should talked about? It must introduce the topic. What the classname should be? It must be understandable at first glance. What the last word should be? the END.

<!--After a quick search on GitHub, it turns out [```asdf```](//github.com/search?q=asdf&type=Everything) is by far the most incomprehensible string of all three mentioned earlier, more than 100,000 references.-->
