---
layout: post
title: Django & Circle CI
permalink: circleci
tags: circleci django ci python
---

Tests are important but usually they fall down quickly in your priority list. That's why when I started a new django project last week, I decided to set up my test environment as soon as possible. Even if it means having 3 tests running at the beginning.

Here are my requirements:

- integration tests for my APIs (unit tests are easier to set up in the future) where integration tests need authentication and test the full stack.
- tests are fast
- tests are run automatically

I'll focus on the last point for this post. My solution is to run my tests on each push to GitHub. For that, I need to find a CI service that would take care of running the tests (instead of having to build a [Jenkins CI](https://jenkins-ci.org/) instance).


## CI service

I explored 3 options. My criterias end up being: *price* and *documentation*.

- [Travis CI](http://travisci.com): [pricing](https://travis-ci.com/plans) ($129) is too much for my simple project even if the [documentation](https://codeship.com/documentation/) seems to be the best. I'll give a try for an open source project, no question asked.
- [Codeship](http://codeship.com): [pricing](https://codeship.com/pricing) is better but I got lost in the [documentation](https://codeship.com/documentation/) when I landed there.
- [Circle CI](http://circleci.com): [pricing](https://circleci.com/pricing) allows me to have one private project for free, and the [documentation](https://circleci.com/docs) isn't as bad as codeship.

So the good compromise is Circle CI. Even if I had to battle a couple of hours with the documentation (which I think contains way too much text, and not enough code). I'll try to explain the few hiccups I had.


## circle.yml

My django project is running with *postgres* and *redis*. Circle CI tries to *infer* your configuration but it couldn't infer my project configuration due to my files tree:
{% highlight sh %}
./
    README.md
    circle.yml
    web/
      .coveragerc
      manage.py
      requirements.txt
      dev_requirements.txt
      myproject/
      ...
{% endhighlight %}

In this case, you need to create a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file: `circle.yml` at the root of your project (useful tip is to get familiar is yaml to avoid dummy mistakes).

{% highlight yaml %}
machine:
  python:
    version: 2.7.9
  services:
    - postgresql
    - redis
  environment:
    DB_NAME: circle_ci
    DB_USER: ubuntu
dependencies:
  post:
    - pip install -r dev_requirements.txt
general:
  build_dir: ./web/
test:
  override:
    - coverage run manage.py test
  post:
    - coverage report > $CIRCLE_ARTIFACTS/coverage.txt
    - "pyflakes . > $CIRCLE_ARTIFACTS/pyflakes.txt || :"
{% endhighlight %}



### Python

My first mistake was line 3, Circle CI doesn't support every [python version](https://circleci.com/docs/environment#python). If you are running on the latest docker python image, it's `2.7.10` which isn't supported yet on Circle CI.


### Environment

I'm storing settings such as database credentials as environment variables on the server, and access them as follow from my `settings.py`
{% highlight python %}
import os

DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
        'NAME': os.environ['DB_NAME'],
        'USER': os.environ['DB_USER'],
        'PASSWORD': os.environ.get('DB_PASSWORD'),
        'HOST': os.environ.get('DB_HOST', 'localhost'),
        'PORT': os.environ.get('DB_PORT'),
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

My suggestion here is to access your variable using `.get(<name>)` so in case the variable isn't defined it will fallback to `None` or best a value you've pre-defined (such as `localhost` for the host).

In my case, just `DB_NAME` and `DB_USER` need to be define in my `circle.yml`.


### Test

#### coverage

If like me, you want to run the coverage for your tests, don't forget to define your `.coveragerc` at the same level as your `manage.py` file. Otherwise you will run coverage on all dependencies.

{% highlight ini %}
[run]
source = myproject
omit = */migrations/*,*tests*
{% endhighlight %}

After running the tests, Circle CI will execute `post` commands. For coverage, it's useful to define the `report` mode (which output in text format instead of html by default).

#### pyflakes

Maybe the trickiest error I had was `pyflakes` failing. If you run the following 2 commands on your code, you get this output:

{% highlight sh %}
> pyflakes .
...
> echo $?
1
{% endhighlight %}

Did you get it? `pyflakes` is exiting with a status `1` which means error and Circle CI doesn't like that.

*Solution*: force the command to exit with a `0` with `<command> || :`.

Also don't forget the quotes otherwise yaml thinks it's a map except that the `post` section is a list.


I haven't dig up into more options, right now my tests are running on Circle CI. It's good enough for now, the foundations are laid and it will be faster to iterate on it and write more tests.
